Trusted pypi publishing and release guide (#1055)
neuroinformatics-unit/movement: docs/source/community/contributing.md

* Testing (only if linting checks pass)

> * Release to PyPI (only if a git tag is present and if tests pass).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Release to PyPI using [trusted publishing](https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/) (only if a git tag is present and if tests pass).
```

The PyPI upload uses [trusted publishing](https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/),
so no API tokens are stored in the repository.

> 

Reviewer: Fold into the release bullet point?
```suggestion
```

### Versioning
We use [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), which includes `MAJOR`.`MINOR`.`PATCH` version numbers:

* PATCH = small bugfix
* MINOR = new feature
* MAJOR = breaking change

For now, semantic versioning applies to `MINOR` and `PATCH` versions only.
Until we are ready for a `v1` `MAJOR` version, we cannot commit to backward compatibility,
so the `MAJOR` version stays at 0 even for breaking changes.
Any such changes should be clearly communicated in the release notes, and,
where possible, preceded by a deprecation warning

> (see [Deprecation lifecycle](#deprecation-lifecycle)).

Reviewer: optionally put in note admonition ?
```suggestion
While the project is still in the `v0.x` phase, breaking changes may occur in
`MINOR` releases. Backward compatibility is not guaranteed at this stage.
Any breaking change must be clearly communicated in the release notes and,
where possible, introduced with a deprecation warning
(see [Deprecation lifecycle](#deprecation-lifecycle)).
```

We use [setuptools_scm](setuptools-scm:) to automatically version `movement`.

> It has been pre-configured in the `pyproject.toml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [setuptools_scm](setuptools-scm:) (configured in `pyproject.toml`) to
automatically version `movement`.
```

`setuptools_scm` will automatically [infer the version using git](setuptools-scm:usage#default-versioning-scheme),
based on the latest tag matching the `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` format on the _main_ branch.
Pushing such a tag triggers the package's deployment to PyPI, as well as a documentation build for that version.

> In practice, we create tags via the GitHub release interface, as described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`setuptools_scm` [derives the version from git](setuptools-scm:usage#default-versioning-scheme),
based on the most recent tag on the _main_ branch that matches the `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` pattern.
Pushing such a tag triggers the package's deployment to PyPI, as well as a documentation build for that version.
In practice, tags are created via the GitHub release interface, as described below.
```

### Making a new release

:::{note}
The steps in this section require write access to the `movement` repository,
so they can only be carried out by maintainers.
:::

#### 1. Start a draft release
Go to the [new release page](movement-github:releases/new), which is equivalent to going to
[Releases](movement-github:releases) and clicking the "Draft a new release" button.

#### 2. Set the tag and title

> * In the "Tag" dropdown, create a new tag following the `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` format (e.g. `v0.10.0`). Don't forget the `v` prefix; it is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the "Tag" dropdown, create a new tag following the `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` format (e.g. `v0.10.0`). Don't forget the required `v` prefix.
```

* Leave "Target" set to `main`.
* Use the tag name as the release title.

#### 3. Generate release notes
* Leave "Previous tag" set to "Auto" and click the "Generate release notes" button.
* Organise the PR list under "What's Changed" into meaningful subsections (`###` headers).
* Start with the most important updates (e.g. a flagship feature or breaking change).
  You may put those under a _Highlights_ subsection.
* Other common subsections are:
    * _Housekeeping_: bot PRs, dependency updates, CI changes
    * _Documentation_

> :::{tip}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::{important}
```

Acknowledge first-time or external contributors.
For breaking changes, include code snippets showing the old vs new syntax.
:::

#### 4. Publish the release
Leave the "Set as the latest release" checkbox ticked (default) and publish.
Then check the "Actions" tab to ensure both the "Tests" and "Docs" workflows finish successfully.

#### 5. Verify the docs and Binder
Confirm that the new version appears on the [website](target-movement) and that the API reference is up to date.
As a bonus, try launching an [example](target-examples) in Binder. The first launch may take a while,

> but Binder caches the environment, so later runs are fast (across all examples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm that the new version appears on the [website](target-movement) and that the API reference reflects the latest changes.
As an extra check, try launching an [example](target-examples) in Binder. The first launch may take a while,
but Binder caches the environment, so later runs (for any example) are fast.
```

#### 6. Announce the release
* Post in the ["Releases" topic on Zulip](movement-releases:)
  with a link to the GitHub release notes. Optionally include a relevant image.
* You may also link to relevant new pages of the docs, e.g. a new example or the
  API reference page for a new function.
* Someone from the team will usually adapt this announcement for social media.

#### 7. Release on conda-forge
* Wait for the `regro-cf-autotick-bot` to open a PR on `movement`'s
  [conda-forge feedstock](https://github.com/conda-forge/movement-feedstock)
  (typically a few hours after the PyPI release).

> * Inspect the PR's diff. Normally there are only two changes in `recipes/meta.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Review the PR diff. In most cases, there are only two changes in `recipes/meta.yaml`:
```

  the version number and the sha256 hash of the source.
* Check whether dependencies need to be changed. If that's not obvious from the list of PRs
  in the GitHub release notes, inspect the "Full Changelog" linked at the bottom of the

>   release notes and look for any changes to `pyproject.toml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check whether dependencies need to be changed. Inspect the "Full Changelog" linked at 
  the bottom of the GitHub release notes and look for any changes to `pyproject.toml`.
```

> * If no dependencies have changed and the CI on the feedstock PR has passed, merge the bot's PR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If no dependencies have changed and CI on the feedstock PR passes, merge the bot's PR
```

  to trigger the conda-forge build and release.

> * If dependencies have changed, make the corresponding changes under `requirements` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If dependencies _have_ changed, update the corresponding entries under `requirements` in
```

>   `recipes/meta.yaml`. You can push these directly to the feedstock PR branch and wait for the CI to pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `recipes/meta.yaml`. You can push these edits directly to the bot's PR branch and wait for CI to pass.
```

> * After merging, wait for the CI to pass on the feedstock's `main` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After merging, wait for CI to pass on the feedstock's `main` branch.
```
